 
 
©BG5 Business Institute, International Human Design School and Jovian Archive Media, Inc. 
 
 LIFE ASPECTS 
  E Core Essence (Sun) 
Your core energy, personality expression, and life force. It is your “self”, what we “do”. This is 
the theme of your life, your Life Work, your purpose and what you are here to do in this lifetime. 
This is how you express your light in the world. 
G Grounding and Balance (Earth) 
This is the backbone of your stability. This is how you ground and balance yourself in the 
physical, material world that leads to stability in life. It grounds and balances the “doing” energy 
of your Core Essence into your body, your form. Represents where we concretize or bring things 
into form. 
D Driving Force (Moon) 
This is what moves you, motivates you, and drives you forward. It is also the reflected light of 
what others see in your inner nature that is brought to the surface and placed on a display. Your 
driving force pulls this to the surface and places it on display. 
F Future Direction (North Node) 
This is the mature stage of experiencing life (after Uranus Opposition 38-43y). This is the 
maturing of letting go of what no longer serves you, while retaining what does. Your stage on 
which your life plays out, the environment and the people in it in your mature stage: 
● Who and what you see - conscious 
● Where you be - unconscious 
P Past Direction (South Node) 
This is your developmental stage of experiencing life, your immaturity until you arrive at your 
Uranus Opposition (38-43y). Your stage on which you live plays out, the environment and the 
people in it in this developmental stage: 
● Who and what you see - conscious 
● Where you be - unconscious 
C Communication & Thinking (Mercury) 
This is what you have a need to communicate and how you think. Represents the expansion of 
human consciousness through all forms of communication (words, music, song, movement). 
Gives you an insight into what you truly need to communicate, express, and reach out and 
deliver to others as a message in this life. 
V Values (Venus) 
These are your values, morals, and the natural laws of how you deal with others and the world 
around you. It also represents love and beauty. Values are your personal right & wrong, your 
moral questions, and issues. If you do not act with moral clarity, Venus can be harsh in her 
retribution. The values that are established in Venus become laws in Jupiter - Personal Law & 
Protection, and any retribution takes place through Saturn - Judge & Discipline. 
 
 
 
 
 
©BG5 Business Institute, International Human Design School and Jovian Archive Media, Inc. 
M Maturing Energy (Mars) 
This represents your extraordinary energy that begins immature, but when refined overtime can 
settle into a powerful and mature wisdom about the correct use of the energy. 
 
Mars represents energetically immature energy free of responsibility that matures overtime. This 
energy is passive until it gets rolling, and then a force to be reckoned with. Once ignited, Mars’ 
capacity to build momentum can result in mindless outbursts where even the most basic 
inhibitions can be overwhelmed. 
L  Personal Law and Protection (Jupiter) 
This is the very focused theme of what is correct for you. If you live by that law, you can gain 
great good fortune (Jupiter is very generous at times). Your ability to benefit from generosity 
comes from deep obedience to your own law to experience the benefits. 
J The Judge / Discipline (Saturn) 
This is where you must deal with the consequences of your own actions. This is the place where 
you will play if you do not follow your own laws, rules, and values (Venus, Jupiter). Saturn is a 
profound signpost that allows you, overtime, to see progress in your process. 
 
Saturn is an expectant taskmaster without praise. If Saturn is leaving you alone, this is a 
signpost that you are living correctly; however, if you break your own rules, values, and laws, 
Saturn will punish you. 
U Uniqueness / Unusualness (Uranus) 
This is where you will express your unusualness. This is where you may experience both chaos 
and order. Uranus introduced us to the tripartite life process of subjective youth, objective mid-
life, and transcendent older age.  
H What’s Hidden (Neptune) 
This is what you can’t see. Hidden Illusion and Spirituality. A great Teacher who demands total 
acceptance. Neptune in any trait veils its potential. This veiling can deeply disturb the not-self as 
it is not possible to see through the veil, and we lose the ability to see any limitations, which can 
lead to abuse. Surrender to Neptune, leave it alone, and you will allow the potential magic to 
emerge from behind the veil. You also learn a great deal about the nature of surrender. 
T  Truth and Transformation (Pluto) 
Pluto brings the forces of the subconscious to the surface; it represents rebirth. 
 
Pluto is the “truth teller”, bringing truths that are hidden to the surface for you to look at directly 
and squarely in the eye - truth brings transformation. This is your Truth, and its deepest lesson is 
to find the light within the darkness. This mystery of you, takes a lifetime to explore.  
 